This [music] is business breakdowns.
Business breakdowns is a series of
conversations [music] with investors and
operators diving deep into a single
business. For each business, we explore
its history, [music] its business model,
its competitive advantages, and what
makes it tick.
We believe every business has lessons
and secrets that investors and operators
can learn [music] from and we are here
to bring them to you. To find more
episodes of breakdowns, check out join
colossus.com. [music] All opinions
expressed by hosts and podcast guests
are solely their own opinions. Hosts,
podcast guests, their employers or
affiliates may maintain positions in the
securities [music] discussed in this
podcast. This podcast is forformational
purposes only and should not be relied
upon as a basis for investment
decisions. [music]
This is Matt Russell and today we are
breaking down Games Workshop. [music]
This episode is another examination of
the business of IP. And whether it's
Disney, Electronic Arts, Nintendo,
there are so many businesses out there
built around a core IP franchise. And
Games Workshop and its Warhammer
franchise may not be as familiar to our
North American listeners, but this
episode will tell you why that may be
changing very soon. Or you can just stay
tuned on your Amazon Prime or search
around your local area to see if there
are Warhammer retail shops in your
location. My guest is Todd Wenning,
president and CIO of KNA Capital. And
Todd shares his own personal story on
Covering Games Workshop many years ago.
He gets into the fun evolution of this
business which ties into the vertical
integration that it has today and he
shares what lies ahead as awareness of
Warhammer grows and those loyal
enthusiasts that have been around for
generations welcome more into their
world. So please enjoy this episode on
Games Workshop.
All right, Todd, it is great to have you
back. you gave us one of my more
enjoyable episodes last year with
Echolab and some of the unique details
about that story. So, anyone who hasn't
listened to that episode, I would
definitely point you to that. But today,
we're here to talk about Games Workshop,
a business that I have seen popping up.
I actually had someone else reach out, a
former guest, interested in doing a
breakdown on it. There seems to be
growing interest in this name for
obvious reasons. It's a fascinating
story that we'll get into, but I just
wanted to start out with the simple
introduction because I think there's IP
in here that some may be familiar with,
but it is what I would consider kind of
in the niche hobbyist category and you
can elaborate on that in terms of what
Games Workshop is as a business and what
they might be known for.
>> Matt, thanks for having me back. It's
great to be here. I love listening to
the show and any way I can contribute
all the better. Games Workshop is my
opinion the best company that most North
American investors at least have never
heard of. It's a really fascinating
story. As you mentioned, it combines
intellectual property, there's network
effects, there's television show coming
out. There's a lot to dig into with
Games Workshop. So, it's a company I
came across in probably 2019. I had
heard of it. I used to work in the UK
and I had heard of it, Rumblings, but I
hadn't really know much about it. Once I
started diving into the company, I
thought this is really one of those
companies I needed to have on my radar.
And then once I launched my fund, saw
the opportunity to buy some and have
been a shareholder since. Very excited
to talk about Games Workshop today.
Maybe you can get into some of the IP.
We have infamous brands associated with
IP Marvel or DC and how they operate as
a framing in mind, but what makes up
Games Workshop in terms of that special
IP and their way that they monetize
that, operate it, and nurture over it.
So, it's probably good to start with the
history of Games Workshop. There is deep
lore about Games Workshop's origins and
backstory, as well as the narratives of
its stories. It's a very beloved IP and
a very beloved company and that's part
of what makes it a really special
company. In the late 1970s, a group of
three men in the UK were building wooden
games back and go. Around that time,
they caught wind of this new thing that
was hitting the US called Dungeons and
Dragons. They thought this is really
fascinating and so they had some
connection with the owner of Dungeons
and Dragons in the US. And so they
became the UK distributor for Dungeons
and Dragons. And eventually they saw how
this connection between narrative and
gameplay was coming together and they
opened their own store, started selling
their own games that they were making,
started selling Dungeons and Dragons
materials through those. In the early
1980s, they decided that we're going to
create our own game. The first game that
they came out with was called Warhammer,
and it was loosely based on the Lord of
the Rings kind of era medieval fantasy
role playing. What they did was instead
of doing a tabletop game where people
sit around and tell stories, they have
miniatures involved. The miniatures are
part of the game. You get these
miniatures and they're very ornate. Now
they're plastic, but back then they were
metal alloy and you could paint them.
Each of your characters has different
attributes and you roll dice. There's
similarities to Dungeons and Dragons.
About two years later, they came up with
this new concept versus Warhammer, which
is more medieval fantasy and it's called
Warhammer 40,000. It's basically the
Warhammer world 40,000 years into the
future. So, it became this grim, dark
science fiction fantasy world where you
have a human race that's fallen. They're
fighting against different alien
factions across the galaxy. You can play
as a humanoid or you can play as an
alien faction, and you can pick which
one appeals to you the most. I'm not
sure if it was part of the plan or not,
but when you have a world that takes
place 40,000 years from now, you can
build a lot of backstory behind that to
the present. Just endless stories and IP
around how things got to where they are.
That's created new storylines for the
business. So, it gets really deep, very
intricate. So if you're thinking about
the Tolken world or the Game of Thrones
world where they just keep adding new
context to the backstory, it's very
similar. So it can go very deep. Games
Workshop actually owns their own
publishing arm called the Black Library
that produces a lot of this narrative.
They are actually vertically integrated
all the way from paint to publishing.
They manufacture the miniatures. They
make the paint. Citadel, do the
publishing. They do the distribution.
They do the stores. They own it top to
tail. It's a very fascinating business
in terms of how they control all of it
and the allore of their IP and how
beloved it is with their fans. I'm
curious. You don't often hear about the
origins being in the distribution and
then evolving into the creation of a
world and a game and narrative around
it. Were those original founders still
very much a part of that storyline into
the 80s as they took off with the
homegrown IP? Did they play a major role
there or was it someone else coming into
the fold that helped them evolve that
side of things? One of the three decided
that he wanted to just go back to what
they were doing before, working on
wooden games. The other two really got
into this fantasy world and narratives
and tabletop gaming. They brought in
other people. So there was a couple of
major outsiders that came in and helped
them develop this game and it spawned
into this subculture of people who just
really loved the narrative and dove into
it and wanted to play it and engage with
it and connect with other people which
is a big part of the story today.
>> You alluded to this. It sounds like the
evolution of that story takes place both
in publishing whether it's books,
graphic novels, whatever it might be in
addition to the miniatures. Is it fair
to call them figurines?
>> Got to be careful here, Matt. I
[laughter] think the way it's framed is
they are miniature war games. They are
not figurines. They are tabletop gaming
pieces. They are things that we engage
with and use to achieve our mission in
the game. So, we got to be careful what
we say. [laughter]
It's an important distinction in terms
of how they're used. And I maybe didn't
appreciate the definition of figurine to
begin with. So learned something way
beyond businesses on this show in terms
of the brickandmortar concepts. There
are Warhammer stores. Are they
distributing obviously Warhammer related
IP product but is there also still third
party product that gets distributed
through those stores as well?
>> No. So they have their own retail stores
as you mentioned. So they have about 575
around the world and about 55% of those
are in Europe and the UK. About 35% are
in North America and 10% in Australasia.
And you probably don't even know that
they have a store in your town. If you
live in a semi- major city in the US,
you probably have what's called a
Warhammer store. So if you go to Google
and type in Warhammer store near me, you
probably have one. I don't know for
sure, but we have one in Cincinnati.
might be one in Pittsburgh, might be one
in Cleveland. A lot of these stores are
run by enthusiasts. About 75% of their
stores are single staff stores. So,
these are just enthusiasts who thought,
I get together with my friends anyway to
play this game, and I might as well have
a store and have everything set up there
and make some sales and make a little
money while I'm doing it. So, a lot of
them are in strip malls. The stores are
fairly small, but they're stacked to the
gills with just Games Workshop
materials. They do not distribute any
third party. That's about 20% of the
revenue comes from the retail channel.
60% of the revenue goes through the
trade channel, which is the third party.
And so that's where they might be in
hobby stores or I'm not sure if they're
in Walmart, but they might be in like a
Walmart store somewhere. These are all
distributed to third party independent
sellers. I looked to understand the
concept of a Warhammer store and found
there was one just a 20-minute drive for
me. So, I can attest to that being the
truth. Just to have some context about
this market, I think it is very
enthusiast driven, but it continuously
amazes me the level of enthusiasm. I
think you can even look at something
like Marvel movies and the real
appreciation and diehard nature of some
of the fans of the origin stories back
to the Stan Lee days and what that
generated for that IP over time. Do you
have any way of contextualizing just the
size of this type of market and Games
Workshop revenue is one data point, but
I'm curious about that.
>> It's a lot bigger than you probably
think. There are 790,000
people around the world who have signed
up for the my Warhammer emails. Free
regular emails that go out to people who
are interested in Warhammer. About
248,000
people are subscribed to Warhammer Plus,
which is a $50 a year subscription. Now,
this number is up from 115,000
3 years ago. It has doubled over the
past three years in terms of people who
are willing to not only subscribe to the
emails but also pay for the unique
interactions they have with the company.
So this is bigger than you might expect
and growing very rapidly. When you
mentioned the origins, was there
demographic
concentration or geographical
concentration where this was really
material in Europe first before
expanding outwards? How key is Europe to
the story? You mentioned the 55% number
earlier, but I'm curious about that as
well.
>> It started in the UK. It feels like a
very British company. They're based in
Nottingham. The World of Warhammer, the
big showcase store is next to their
headquarters in Nottingham. They're
actually building a new World of
Warhammer in Washington DC that comes
out in 2027. So, that's another part of
the story, but it's a big cultural thing
in the UK. a lot of young men in
particular. It's not always men, but it
tends to trend towards young men who get
really into this game. Henry Caval, who
I'm sure we'll talk about in a minute
because he's producing the Warhammer
series for Amazon, he's a big fan, so
he'll get on talk shows and talk about
it. And a lot of people grew up playing
Warhammer, maybe the similar way to you
and I might have collected baseball
cards and gone to baseball card shows.
So, it's a very hobbydriven type of
business. Management talks about the
hobby gene that a lot of customers have.
the hobby gene. Not everybody has that.
That's a big part of the people who buy
it. Terms of age, it tends to be young
men between the ages of 10 and say 18.
And then a lot of times they fall away
from the hobby because it's an expensive
hobby. The starter box that I bought was
about $70 to give you an idea. So it's
roughly video game type level and it can
go much much higher. So you can get
individual units that cost hundreds of
dollars if not more depending on what
you're doing. So it's a very expensive
hobby. And so a lot of times young
players are supported by their parents
when it comes to buying Christmas gifts,
birthday gifts, things like this. A lot
of times what happens is they discover
the opposite sex or they discover
someone who they partner with and they
just get distracted for 10 years or so.
Then in their 30s and maybe in their
40s, they come back to it. That tends to
be the trend of the ages and the
interest in Warhammer
>> once you lose access to the rental funds
too. It becomes more focused on the
budget until you get back out of that
hole. But it is interesting when you
have the demographic evolution where as
they come back to the hobby, they might
also have their own children to help
break into the hobby. And I can imagine
that happens quite a bit. I think you've
laid out who in theory would be the
competition, but I'm always very curious
when it comes to having the hobby gene.
What attracts people to Magic the
Gathering versus Dungeons and Dragons
versus Warhammer? Are those the right
competitors to think about when you
think about where competition exists for
the business?
>> In some ways, yes. I think a lot of it
comes down to what your friends are
playing. Warhammer is a lot about
community and having something to do
with your friends in an increasingly
digital world. It's a great way to come
together in a physical world and enjoy
time together. One of the things that
separates Warhammer from say Dungeons
and Dragons or Magic the Gathering is
that you can latch on to various parts
of Warhammer. You might really enjoy the
gaming or you might really enjoy the
collecting or you might really enjoy the
painting. I don't want to go too deep in
myself into this world because otherwise
I start mixing up investing in the
narrative of the business, but I did get
a starter set and you paint these
figures and you have to do multiple
layers sometimes to get them right. And
so you spend hours of your time putting
these things together. And so if you can
get really into painting them, some
people actually paint them if they're
really good at them and sell them. You
can latch on to various parts of the
hobby without having it compete with
Dungeons and Dragons or Magic the
Gathering. It could be that you really
like collecting these space figurines or
these medieval fantasy. They actually
produce the Lord of the Rings official
tabletop games. If you want to collect
armies of orcs fighting elves in the
Lord of the Rings, you can do that by
buying Games Workshop products. Yeah,
it's always interesting to me in terms
of the symbolism of when you see
something that is a niche hobby evolve
and one of the key moments I think is
when you see the resale with
customization. there's just something
that represents there's a market above
this market that now exists and that is
representative of an ecosystem and
people willing to spend the time to
create a business around the original IP
is usually telling in terms of the level
of enthusiasm there. The other question
I had was vertical integration seems
like it can be very impactful for games
worm shop particularly because of that
community element that you mentioned. If
you have a traditional hobbyist store,
they might have a Magic the Gathering
monthly event. They might not, but I'm
sure that pretty much all Warhammer
stores have these events. Is that normal
in the industry based on what you've
seen? So, Games Workshop does put on a
lot of competitions and events. The
attendance numbers are much larger again
than you would probably expect. It's
very much a bonding type of business.
One of the things I like about this
business is there's hidden network
effects. If one friend starts to play,
another friend starts to play and it
starts building and the community that
you build around you gets stronger which
makes games workshop stronger and the
entire value of the whole ecosystem gets
stronger. We think about network effects
and Google, Facebook and eBay but really
thinking about in a physical gaming
world, you don't really think about it,
but Games Workshop has it.
>> You gave us some sense of the revenue
breakout with retail and trade. I'd be
curious what the other 20% is. So maybe
we could start off there.
>> So the other 20% 15% comes from online
and 5% from licensing. The online can
just be people who order from
Warhammer.com.
It can be the subscriptions that I
talked about earlier. I think they do.
My estimate is that their annual run
rate on that number of subscribers is
about 12 million pounds. It's rising but
still small part of their business. And
then the licensing business is the
remaining 5%. And that can be cyclical.
They might have a big licensing deal
come in with a video game. So if you go
on to the Switch marketplace or
PlayStation, you'll be able to see
Warhammer games. And so they license
their IP to the video game producers.
That business is really high margin. So
it's well over 90% in a typical year. 90
95% is what I have in mind. as a firm
their gross margins are about 70%. It is
almost like a luxury product when you
think about those margins and they have
significant pricing power. So if you
think about their retail stores, my
guess is they do about 80 to 85% gross
margins in those stores where they
control the process. Online is probably
similar. Their cost there being
logistics and distribution. And with
trade, I think their gross margin is my
guess. They don't disclose this but it's
probably 50 55% thereabouts when they
sell to the wholesale. So it's a very
strong model from an economic
standpoint. Their eBay margins over 40%.
It's a very cash generative business.
the licensing point. I still remember
reading there's all this lure about
Ralph Lauren, but if you go back into
the early biographies, it it was a
failing business really under a lot of
stress until he licensed a fragrance and
that was like a huge profit driver in
cash generator. It always made licensing
in my head a completely different
concept. But nonetheless, even if that
sits at top the chain, 50% 70% gross
margins are quite impressive. On those
buckets, would you point to any single
bucket being a large growth driver going
forward as you think about expansion? DC
store seems like that can make a big
leap into the US and having a prime
show. seems like they're doing things
with the IP that are sensible from both
an attention and awareness standpoint,
but what would you point to just kind of
from a growth perspective?
>> So, if we think about the network
effects that I mentioned with the TV
show coming out, I think it'll appeal to
a lot of people who have never even
heard of Warhammer, they might go check
out their local store. All of a sudden,
you got a new node in the network. They
introduce their friends and so on and so
forth. If you look at what's happened
with the Mario movie, for example, when
the Mario movie came out, Nintendo
management said, "We were surprised. We
had high expectations. We were surprised
by even how much that drove what we
wanted them to do, which was buy
Nintendo video games." And when The
Witcher, which is also starring Henry
Caval back in Netflix, came out, that
was sort of a stagnant video game
series. And the sales went through the
roof. people, they see IP, whether it's
Lord of the Rings or whatever, and they
want to continue to engage with that IP.
They want to stay with it. My investment
thesis is that this will lead to
stronger sales in the higher margin
categories. It'll certainly drive
interest in trade. People might go to a
hobby store instead of knowing there's a
Warhammer nearby, or maybe they don't
have a Warhammer nearby and they go to
the hobby store, in which case it's
lower gross margin. But I think that
will increase some of the licensing
revenue that they have which is 90%
gross margin. The online business which
I think is 80 85% gross margin and
certainly drive traffic into the the
Warhammer stores which is again about 80
85%. And that's where management wants
you to start your experience in a
Warhammer store. When I went to go buy
my Warhammer starter kit, Warhammer
40,000 to be specific, I walk in with my
kids and there's probably six or seven
30-year-old men sitting around tables
playing this game. They all kind of look
up at me to see like, "Hey, is this guy
one of us?" [laughter] I started asking
questions and they were talking to my
kids. And I think it's just a great way
to get a feel for what Warhammer is,
what they offer, how the game is played,
what sort of social events are around
it. It's a great introduction to the
experience and to the community.
>> It's a very interesting thing that we're
starting to see more of. You mentioned
the Mario movie, which I can tell you is
the first movie I got my son to watch in
full. That meant something to me in
terms of the nostalgia of playing the
game growing up, but also on another
extreme, F1, Drive to Survive. And I
think a lot of people are trying to use
that as a blueprint. So you can see how
that drives additional interest and
entryways and potentially for a certain
type of buyer as well. So that's quite
interesting. On the licensing, I'm just
curious. You mentioned it can fluctuate
quite a bit. How does that work? Is it
just the sense of if you're licensing a
video game, you're going to have that
initial bump in year one, but until you
release a new game, you're going to have
that natural decline curve.
>> Most of their licensing historically has
come from the video game partnerships.
And so it depends on when consoles are
launched, when games are developed, and
so it can be a little lumpy. When it
hits, it goes right to the bottom line
pretty much. There's very little
operating expense related to that. It
really just falls to the bottom line. So
I'm thinking that as the movie comes
out, that will lead to more licensing
deals, whether directly from Amazon or
from new partners of video games, etc.
So I think that will remain a very cash
generative part of the business for a
long time. just in terms of being UK
operated, did the tariff volatility end
up impacting them at all? And it's just
one of those questions that comes to
mind as you mentioned origin and having
that strong footprint there in the UK.
How caught up in all of that activity
did it get and how much does it actually
impact the business?
>> So that was some of the concern earlier
in 2025. The stock sold off or was
stagnant a little bit. The concern was
that management said after their annual
report came out, they work on a
different schedule in terms of their
reporting schedule, but when the May
report came out, they said, "We're
concerned about tariffs and what the
impact might be to our gross margins."
And then the stock had a nice jump
couple weeks ago because they said in
their November report that actually it
didn't impact us as much as we expected.
And then we saw this week, so we're
talking on January 22nd, we saw when
there were concerns about new tariffs,
the stock sold off a little bit. Again,
they are impacted by it. But again, this
is why the vertical integration helps
quite a bit. Not only does it help
protect them from IP theft, which is one
of their biggest concerns, but also it
helps them control their supply, and
they have complete control of their
supply at all times.
>> You mentioned those gross margins, which
to me feel very impressive. Is there any
way to contextualize that versus peers?
I don't know if there are others that
are public that you can compare it to,
but I'm curious about that.
>> It's such an idiosyncratic business that
there's really not a ton of good comps.
The best comp is the Wizards of the
Coast unit at Hasbro, which owns Match
of the Gathering and Dungeons and
Dragons, and they have similar EB
margins around 40%. This is very
lucrative IP, and it's very, very
difficult to get. You mentioned
nostalgia earlier. You can't just create
this IP. Let's say you wanted to go out
and compete against Magic the Gathering
or Warhammer. I would just say good luck
because it takes decades to build up
that nostalgia, those deep connections
and importantly that enables you to pass
it down to the next generation. I played
this growing up. I'm going to show you
how to play it. It's similar to the way
we played games with our sons or our
children on Nintendo. We played it
growing up. We share it with them.
Nintendo doesn't have to win them over
on their own. We're doing it for them.
We're the salespeople. It's just
extremely difficult for anybody to come
in and compete with these deeply seated,
deeply rooted experiences and IP. I'm
still amazed at that ability to
transition from being known for
distribution, manufacturing, all of that
into building out this worldbuing
storyline and all that goes with it
because that is such a massive
undertaking and takes such creativity
and a special type of gene. So more
credit to them. I think you see now
everybody's just dying to get a Wordle
created and there's so much demand for
people who can make games like that and
get them attached to let alone this. On
the point of where margins go, are there
any either headwinds or tailwinds where
you expect them to materially change
from the level that they're at?
Obviously, if you have a mix shift,
which sounds like it could theoretically
happen in the future if you get more
online consumption, but is there
anything that you think would materially
change that trend line from where they
are today?
>> So, on the positive side, we touched on
the network effects building and the
manufacturing facilities are high fixed
costs. They have more throughput coming
through them that should increase
margins. the risk, you know, it's really
trying to stay relevant because network
effects are great when your product's
relevant and they can unwind just as
fast when you're irrelevant. That is
something I'm always keeping my eye on
is are they staying interesting to their
fan base. One of the risks is that they
gouge prices, right? They push prices
too hard and that's a common piece of
feedback you see online. That doesn't
mean people stop buying it, but people
are saying, "Hey, this is just getting
too expensive for me." And so I think
Games Workshop does a good job in my
opinion of stewarding that and thinking
longer term. They have a very long-term
view. I don't think that they are trying
to maximize short-term profitability at
the risk of long-term relationships and
gains, but that's certainly a risk if
they get to the point where they have to
raise prices due to inflation and that
just gets out of control for their core
customer.
>> You started looking at it in 19 and
that's certainly a tenure at this point
in 26 of looking at the business and its
history. Do you have any sense of
whether it has ever had stretches of
time where it maybe went out of
popularity or lost some of the luster
that was associated with it?
>> For sure. If you look at the chart, you
can see where it falls apart. What
happened was they got the license, the
agreement to manufacture the Lord of the
Rings miniatures, those games. It was
such a bonanza. I'm sure you can
remember in the 2000s how big Lord of
the Rings was and they have three movies
and everyone got really excited about
it. What happened to Games Workshop was
they kind of took their eye off the ball
when it came to investing in their own
IP. They were just making so much money
working with Lord of the Rings that they
weren't keeping their IP fresh. When
Lord of the Rings movies stopped coming
out, that traffic stopped. Now they
didn't have fresh IP. They got in some
real challenges in 2008. There was a
real scare that they might go under.
That was an important moment. And I
think a lot of great companies, if you
look back at their history, there was
probably a moment somewhere along the
line where they had a near-death
experience. Great companies say, "We're
never doing that again. We will not take
on debt. We won't do whatever got us in
trouble the first time. We're going to
fix that." And that's certainly what
Games Workshop has done. And so, again,
it's just super critical that they
continue to invest in their IP. They
release new additions. And so, that
keeps the IP fresh. Some people might
say, "Oh, I didn't like this edition,"
or whatever. But they'll buy the next
one. The idea is just keep it fresh,
keep it going, investing in the
business, staying relevant. That's the
key to Games Workshop's business.
>> Is there a creative director that sits
on top of managing that IP? I think a
lot of the success of Marvel and those
movies should be attributed to Kevin
Feige who was a diehard fan and made
sure that evolution into the theater was
done with thoughtfulness around the most
enthusiast Marvel fans but could also be
consumable by normies like myself. How
does Games Workshop approach that? Do
they disclose who looks over it? What's
the storyline there?
>> They have a very unique organization as
well. So it's a flat organization. It's
not a strict hierarchy. They actually
have it set up where there's two groups.
One group is focused on core retail, so
dealing with the stores, dealing with
the manufacturing, and there's another
group that's focused entirely on IP.
They take that IP part of their business
extremely seriously, as they should.
That's I think a key to Games Workshop
success, this modern success post 2008
is that they've realized we really need
to build up this IP again, make it deep
connection with the users and the game
players. Back a bit to the financial
model or the spreadsheet oriented
questions in terms of capital
allocation. I assume with Ibodon margins
at 40% a decent amount of that flows
into free cash flow. What do they invest
in if they do have to reinvest capex?
And how would you just describe the
overall capital allocation framework for
the business?
>> They have a very unique approach to
returning capital to shareholders. I
think their average dividend payout
ratio is about 80%.
>> Very UK of them. It
>> is very dividend focused. There's
another company in the UK called Admiral
Group which is a car insurance company.
They have a very similar process where
they figure out here's all the cash that
came in. We're going to keep a buffer,
make sure that we are able to be secure
in case there's COVID or something
different comes up, an emergency, and
whatever's left over, we give it to our
shareholders. It's very simple. I
believe they have authorization to buy
back stock, but I don't believe they've
done it before. They haven't really had
a 2008 type period where the stock was
super cheap either. Their approach is,
hey, we're just going to give you
whatever is left over. I think it's a
very shareholder friendly approach
especially for their type of business
because you can imagine being as cash
rich as they are. They could easily fall
into the empire building trap where they
just start buying up studios and all
these sorts of things and they are just
relentlessly focused on what they do. I
think that is the right capital
allocation process for them.
>> And you mentioned a bit about the
stocknet getting overly cheap. Do they
have a way of thinking about valuation
or do you have a way of thinking about
whether it's PE or anything else just to
frame the valuation framework that you
would use for a business like this?
>> So for this type of business I think
because it pays such high dividends
really cash flow oriented. It's a
discounted cash flow model is what I
use. I forecast what I think's going to
happen with the margins and figure out
what that turns into cash and then
discount that cash back to the present.
And that's how I modeled the business.
You might look at the stock today. I
think it's trading for about 30 times
earnings, which is not optically cheap,
but if you think about the
[clears throat]
potential for margin increase, and this
network effect acceleration, we might
look back and say that wasn't too bad to
pay. You had a very nice write up
recently when 40 times earnings, I
think, was the actual headline, is
actually cheap. I often think that there
are some impressive businesses out there
that are like that. and you need to look
for characteristics and I could see your
angle here certainly and 30 times not 40
times more reason on the risk side of
the equation. I think we've kind of
alluded to several throughout or what
you would keep your eye on the most. Is
there anything else that you would add
to it or one in particular that you
would highlight as the risk that you
think most about for the business?
>> In terms of the risk, there's a couple
of things. Kevin Roundtree, who we
haven't mentioned yet, who is the CEO
and writes, in my opinion, some of the
best annual reports out there. I mean,
if you're an annual report fan, you have
to check out Games Workshop. You can
imagine if you were the CEO of a
business with this sort of fantasy IP,
you would be inclined to create these
200page glossy annual reports with all
the IP you have to kind of show off what
you've done. It's like a word document.
It's a simple word document. and he's
got some great lines that he puts in
those reports and he says, "We believe
shareholder value is created primarily
by not destroying it." So he has these
great oneliners that any sort of Buford
fan would just love and I do too. And he
repeats them every annual report. So he
kind of drives it home. He's been CEO
since 2015 and it's been extremely
successful and he's 55 years old, so
still pretty young. Could go on for a
long time, but there's always the risk
that Kevin decides, I've done a great
job. I've got other plans in life. I
want to move on. One of the concerns is
what does the post Kevin Roundtree games
workshop look like? Seems like they have
a blueprint for success to execute on,
but you just never know. There's always
the risk of a management transition not
going well, someone who doesn't connect
with the fans. So, there's always that
risk. The key risk, however, is just
avoiding irrelevance. If you go on
online and you go to Warhammer chats and
things, people will be upset about
prices or this addition, but that's
okay. When you're looking at IP, what
you care about are people who are
passionate one way or the other. The
worst thing that can happen is just a
yawn indifference. So, if they care,
that means that they will buy when they
are happy, but they still really love
the IP. And so, as long as Games
Workshop continues to harness that,
it'll be great. AI is a potential
concern or a potential benefit. It's
unclear at this point. Management has
come out and said that we don't want our
IP creators to use AI because they're
afraid that it'll get mangled in the AI
world or stolen or something like that.
What's interesting is that part of the
backstory to Warhammer 40,000 is that
humans used AI and it turned everything
bad. They had to fight against AI
robots. This is all coming kind of full
circle in a weird way. Hopefully that's
not our future, but they are naturally
concerned about their IP getting stolen
and misused and diluted somehow. And so
I think that's another risk. That's
probably three risks. They're right
there to keep an eye on.
>> I think the point on Kevin highlights
the importance of the people that
oversee IP are so incredibly important
and some of those other points are
noteworthy as well. Maybe Warhammer
40,000 will become some type of
Nostradamus like tale and add even more
lure to the story. This has been
fascinating. I mentioned before I
absolutely love businesses built around
IP and particularly when they find ways
to really nurture it while building a
nice business around it. What are the
key lessons that stand out to you from
analyzing this business that you would
potentially think about looking for
elsewhere or applying elsewhere as an
investor?
>> I think a lot of it has to do with
sticking to what you're good at and
embracing the quirkiness, the community,
the narrative that you're building
around those things. You might be
surprised at how big that market really
is. If you have a very niche interest,
especially with the way the internet is
today, there's a community somewhere,
you can find them. This is a very
positive for the world community for
people to get involved in. It's human
connection bringing people together. In
the digital world, everybody feels
isolated and fragmented. And I feel like
this is one type of game that can bring
people together. I think that's really
healthy. From a lesson standpoint, I
just think lean into your narrative,
lean into your community, lean into your
niche. I think that's a good lesson that
I've drawn from the games workshop
world.
>> Very good point. You were mentioning
network effects and even the feedback
loop. The feedback loop can get loosened
because you're introducing new things
and it's not as tight as it needs to be.
But when you can have that focus, it
really ties together nicely. And riches
in the niches, something I always like
to reference. It's always amazing. And
the internet can open your eyes to just
seeing how many niches are out there. I
compare it to living in a thousand or
1500 years ago when there were thriving
civilizations that nobody really knew
even existed and you might stumble upon
them and think to yourself, "Wow, who
knew they were out here?" Well, Todd,
this again has been a pleasure. I've
learned a lot and I'm sure the audience
has as well. So, thank you very much for
sharing the knowledge.
>> Thanks for having me, [music] Matt. To
find more episodes of breakdowns ranging
from Costco to Visa to Madna or to
[music] sign up for our weekly summary,
check out join colossus.com. That's
jolsus.com.
[music]